---
navigation.title: "Home"
---

# Michael Sexton

- 📧 Email: [ms3648@cornell.edu](mailto:ms3648@cornell.edu)
- 🏡 Location: New York, NY
- 👤 LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/in/michaelsexton21](https://linkedin.com/in/michaelsexton21)
- 📞 Phone: 914-588-4734
- 🐱 GitHub: [github.com/MichaelSexton21](https://github.com/MichaelSexton21)

## Education

### Cornell University, Cornell Tech, New York, NY

- **Program**: Master of Engineering in Computer Science
- **Expected Graduation**: May 2024
- **Activities**: Co-President of the Cybersecurity Club

### University of Wisconsin-Madison, College of Engineering, Madison WI

- **Degree**: Bachelor of Science, double major in Computer Engineering and Computer Science
- **Graduated**: May 2022
- **Clubs**: Artificial Intelligence Club, Data Science Club, Software Development Club
- **Selected Coursework**: Artificial Intelligence, Neural Networks, Algorithms, Database Management Systems, Machine Organization and Programming, Microprocessors, Computer Architecture, Data Structures

## Specialized Skills

- **Expert**: Machine Learning, Data Science, SQL, Linux, Git
- **Experienced**: Software Design, Kubeflow, Docker, Verilog
- **Proficient**: AWS, Java, C, C++, PCB Design, R, Matlab

## Work Experience

### Data Scientist and Software Developer, IBM, Poughkeepsie, NY

- **Duration**: June 2021 - July 2023
- Built custom software solutions for engineers to predict the failure of thermal and power systems in all deployed Mainframes, ensuring 100% uptime and decreasing reactive repairs.
- Executed a Machine Learning project to predict the failure of CPUs deployed in the field for over 10,000 mainframes up to 30 days early, eliminating unexpected downtime and ensuring our reputation for reliability.
- Responsible for the onboarding and training of new employees.

### Data Scientist, Code Ocean, New York, NY

- **Duration**: June 2020 - April 2021
- Developed and integrated features using AWS to implement large-scale bioinformatics pipelines with parallel execution decreasing processing time significantly.
- Designed and executed Data Science projects that increased user retention, generated new users, and increased user productivity.

### Data Analysis Intern, Paragon Global Markets, New York, NY

- **Duration**: June 2019 - August 2019
- Developed and implemented a custom financial reporting software using Python, SQL, and Tableau creating actionable insights into the business.

### Intern, Layer 7 Consulting, New York, NY

- **Duration**: June 2019 - August 2019
- Conducted independent site visits for hedge funds, brokerage firms, trading businesses, and law firm clients to perform diagnostics and remediation of critical hardware and software.

## Relevant Academic Coursework

### Computer Engineering Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI

- **Neural Networks**: Tested different data augmentation approaches to classify images of various cities using TensorFlow, Python, and transfer learning of the RESNET model. Team Captain.
- **Engineering Capstone**: Built the robot BB8 from Star Wars from scratch with a custom-built circuit board and accompanying Bluetooth Android control application. Team Captain.
- **Computer Architecture**: Designed and implemented a 16-bit five-stage pipelined MIPS processor with integrated data and instruction cache in Verilog. Team Captain.
- **Synthesis and Design**: Built and synthesized an ASIC to control a robot with the goal of solving the Knight's Tour in Verilog.

## Leadership Experience

- **Panelist**: 2023 Data Science Research Bazaar, Madison, WI
  Invited to speak about the Job market and give advice for undergraduate and graduate students entering the job market.
