---
navigation.title: "Experience"
---

# Work Experience

### IBM, Data Scientist and Software Developer, Poughkeepsie, NY

**June 2021 - July 2023**

- Executed and deployed a Machine Learning pipeline using SQL, Python, and Kubeflow to predict the failure of CPUs deployed in the field for over 10,000 Mainframes up to 30 days early, eliminating unexpected downtime and ensuring our reputation for reliability.
- Designed, developed, tested, and deployed custom software solutions for engineers using SQL and Python to predict the failure of thermal and power systems in all Mainframes, ensuring 100% uptime and decreasing reactive repairs.
- Responsible for the onboarding and training of new Data Scientists on the team.
- Started as Intern, hired part-time during undergraduate education, hired full-time after graduation.

---

### Code Ocean, Data Scientist (Promoted from Intern), New York, NY

**June 2020 - April 2021**

- Engineered and integrated features using AWS and Docker to implement large-scale bioinformatics pipelines with parallel execution, decreasing processing time by 60% for Code Ocean’s Computational Reproducibility Platform.
- Designed and executed Data Science projects using Python that increased user retention, generated new users, and increased user productivity as well as multiple competitive analyses.

---

### Paragon Global Markets, Data Analysis Intern, New York, NY

**June 2019 - August 2019**

- Developed and implemented a custom financial reporting software using Python, SQL, and Tableau, creating actionable insights into the business.

---

### Layer 7 Consulting, Intern, New York, NY

**June 2019 - August 2019**

- Conducted independent site visits for hedge funds, brokerage firms, trading businesses, and law firm clients to perform diagnostics and remediation of critical hardware and software.
